for more information about CalGIS LocationCon and this talk: https://calgis2017.locationcon.org/session/using-open-data-get-point-point-b-and-improve-transportation-options-along-way

### "Using open data to get from Point A to Point B and to improve transportation options along the way"

Using only open-data sources, it's possible to power a wide variety of tools for personal navigation, transportation optimization, and planning and analysis. While open data may not always have the quality or consistency of commercial data sources, the open approach has unique advantages: Developers can more fully customize and tailor their use of data for their particular apps, visualizations, and analyses. New business models can be built when data licensing costs are less of a factor. And, most importantly, the open approach to data can allow for a "virtuous cycle" of consumption and contribution. That is, those who use the outputs of the open-data source are also equipped to contribute to extending its coverage and quality.

This open approach is especially powerful for transportation applications. In this talk, I'll share a few related projects: the Transitland open transit data platform, which aggregates schedules from public transit agencies; the Valhalla routing engine, which uses data from Transitland and OpenStreetMap to plan multimodal journeys, optimize routes, and analyze travel accessibility; and the Open Traffic project, which is turning anonymous positions from ride-share and delivery companies into traffic statistics that can be used with OpenStreetMap. These data sources and tools can be used alone, together, or with other tooling, such as GIS software. I'll highlight some of the most interesting applications of these data sources and tools for personal mobility and urban planning, and I'll identify entry points for developers, public agency staffers, and GIS analysts looking to consume or contribute data--or, ideally, to do both!